		    ACM Transactions on Database Systems

			  Guidelines for Reviewers

ACM TODS recognizes that reviewing is a service to the profession; this
publication endeavors to treat reviewers with courtesy and respect. The TODS
web site

	http://www.acm.org/tods/Referees.html#Rights

lists many guarantees that TODS provides reviewers.

Papers for the ACM Transactions on Database Systems (TODS) must be of high
quality and fall within the scope of the journal. There are four main
ingredients to an acceptable paper:

(1) The technical quality is high. 
(2) The relevance to significant computations is high. 
(3) Interest and novelty is high. 
(4) The presentation is effective. 

Few papers excel in all of these, but a substandard level in any is
sufficient ground for rejection. Many papers require substantial revisions
before acceptance, and reviewers should not hesitate to recommend that a
paper be rejected pending changes that are required for completeness,
correctness, or to substantially improve clarity.

The following is a list of other considerations to be taken into account
when reviewing a submission.

1. TODS will publish outstanding papers which are "major value-added
   extensions" of papers previously published in conferences; that is,
   TODS will not automatically reject papers that are substantial
   extensions of previously published conference papers. These papers
   will go through the normal review process.

   The submitted manuscript should thoroughly consolidate the material,
   should extend it to be broader, and should more carefully cover related
   research. It should have at least 30% new material. The new material
   should be content material, not just the addition of proofs or a few more
   performance figures. This affords an opportunity to describe the novel
   approach in more depth, to consider the alternatives more
   comprehensively, and to delve into some of the issues listed in the other
   paper as future work.

2. TODS would like to foster closer fusion of theory and systems by
   strongly encouraging the authors of theory papers to indicate
   applications and implementation considerations/ consequences, and
   the authors of systems papers to indicate the use of existing
   theoretical results and to point to possible theoretical research
   issues. Please determine if the paper you review satisfies this
   criterion, and, if it does not, make notes for the authors and
   editor as to how the paper may be revised to meet the criterion.

3. TODS would like to make papers it publishes more easily readable. TODS
   strongly encourages authors to include examples where appropriate and to
   make greater efforts to target their presentation to a broader audience
   than specialists doing current research in the topical areas of the
   papers.  Please determine if the paper is readable. If it is not, suggest
   how it may be improved (e.g., by requesting illustrative examples,
   expanded discussions on key points that are not clear, etc.)

4. TODS would like to discourage excessively long papers (longer than
   50 double-spaced pages including figures, references, etc.) and
   unnecessary digressions even in shorter papers. This is to help the
   authors to focus on the most important aspects of their submission,
   to make it easier for the reviewers and readers, and to allow more
   papers to be published in any given issue. Please determine if the
   paper you review can be shortened without materially compromising
   the completeness and worthiness of the paper.

5. In a similar vein, TODS now encourages shorter submissions, including even
   very short (say, five page) submissions. The primary criterion for
   acceptance is improving on the state-of-the-art in some significant way.

6. TODS also publishes focused surveys. These should be deep and will
    sometimes be quite narrow, but would make a contribution to our
    understanding of an important area or subarea of databases, broadly
    defined. More general surveys that are intended for a broad-based
    Computer Science audience or surveys that may influence other areas of
    computing research should continue to go to ACM Computing Surveys. Brief
    surveys on recent developments in database research are more appropriate
    for SIGMOD Record. TODS surveys should be educational to database
    audiences by presenting a relatively well-established body of database
    research.

